instalations:
pip install pandas
pip install notify-py
pip install requests



imports:
from notifypy import Notify
import requests
import pandas as pd
import base64
import requests
from dotenv import load_dotenv
import os



EXPLANATION ON WHY AND HOW:
To build an app that suggests happy music to users based on their mood, you can utilize the Spotify API to fetch tracks that are characterized by certain audio features associated with happiness. The key audio features you should focus on are valence, energy, and tempo, among others. Here’s a breakdown of how you can identify and access these features using the Spotify API:

Key Audio Features for Happy Music
Valence: A measure from 0.0 to 1.0 describing the musical positiveness conveyed by a track. Tracks with high valence sound more positive (e.g., happy, cheerful, euphoric).
Energy: A measure from 0.0 to 1.0 and represents a perceptual measure of intensity and activity. Typically, energetic tracks feel fast, loud, and noisy.
Tempo: The overall estimated tempo of a track in beats per minute (BPM). Happy music often has a higher tempo.
Steps to Access and Use These Features
Obtain Access Token: Use your client credentials to obtain an access token, as you have already done in your script.

Search for Tracks or Playlists: Use the Spotify API to search for tracks or playlists. You can search for genres or specific keywords like "happy".

Get Audio Features: Use the Get Audio Features for a Track endpoint to retrieve audio features for each track. This endpoint will provide you with detailed information about the track, including valence, energy, and tempo.


readme:
Mood Me UP Installation Guide

Overview: Mood Me UP is an application designed to suggest happy music to users feeling sad. Utilizing the Spotify API, the app fetches tracks characterized by certain audio features associated with happiness. These key audio features include valence, energy, and tempo.

Key Audio Features for Happy Music:

Valence: A measure from 0.0 to 1.0 describing the musical positiveness conveyed by a track. Tracks with high valence sound more positive (e.g., happy, cheerful, euphoric). Energy: A measure from 0.0 to 1.0 and represents a perceptual measure of intensity and activity. Typically, energetic tracks feel fast, loud, and noisy. Tempo: The overall estimated tempo of a track in beats per minute (BPM). Happy music often has a higher tempo. Installation:

For Mac Users:

Clone the repository:

Use git clone to clone the repository from GitHub. Navigate to the project directory using the terminal. Install the required packages:

Use pip install to install the necessary Python packages: pandas notify-py requests Set up Environment Variables:

Create a .env file in the project directory to store your Spotify API credentials. Add your Spotify API credentials to the .env file: SPOTIFY_CLIENT_ID=your_spotify_client_id SPOTIFY_CLIENT_SECRET=your_spotify_client_secret For Windows Users:

Follow similar steps as mentioned above, but download the repository as a ZIP file from GitHub and extract it to a directory of your choice.

Imports:

The following Python packages are used in the project:

notifypy requests pandas base64 dotenv os How to Use:

Load Environment Variables:

Load your environment variables (Spotify API credentials) using dotenv. Authenticate with Spotify API:

Authenticate and get access to the Spotify API. Fetch Happy Music Recommendations:

Use the Spotify API to fetch tracks with high valence, energy, and tempo. Notify User:

Notify the user about the happy music recommendations. Analyzing Database:

The application can also analyze a database of tracks to suggest happy music. Ensure your database is in a compatible format (e.g., CSV) and load it using pandas.

Contributing:

Contributions are welcome! Please submit a pull request or open an issue to discuss your ideas.

License:

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Happy listening with Mood Me UP!